The Joe Rogan experience. Growing up in Akron. And like,
you guys had to feel like you were on the outside of the music business, right?
Like the business itself was in Nashville and LA and New York. And,
you know, growing up in a, in a town,
do you think there's an advantage while we did.
But oddly, pat and I had a connection to the, the real music business,
but both in our family, uh, my cousin was Robert Quine,
uh,
guitar player who played with Lou Reed and Richard hell and avoids one of the
first punk guitar players really influential. And the pats uncles, Ralph Carney,
a saxophone player played on all the Tom waits records before to two records,
all kinds of records. Ah.
It was weird. And these guys weren't like, uh, financially successful,
but they were critically lauded kind of individuals.
We're professional musicians. So they own records and it was just odd.
So I grew up around the block.
From each other. So what we want, I mean, we looked at that, right?
The idea of making a record with what we want,
that's all we wanted to do was make a record. And then, you know,
by the time we were selling like 150 200 seat rooms, we were like,
we have made it. This is it. This is awesome. This is what we wanted.
And then we would be like,
what if we try to sell out those 400 seat room? What if, you know,
it would just kind of slowly went.
And then finally we got to this point where we were like, well,
what if we try to play Madison square garden? And our manager was like, yeah,
you could do it. And we're like, well, let's do it.
And then we did two nights there.
And that's literally what started from playing the R R his tour history,
like in Brooklyn or in New York was like, we opened for a Pascal band.
And on a Monday night
in Brooklyn for 50 bucks.
We drove all the way from Akron, eight hours.
Eight hours, each way, made $50.
That's our first show in New York and wow. Yeah,
that's a Barclays or whatever, but it all started. It was all like, it was like,
it was like, honestly,
when we got to the point when we were playing a Troubadour, I was like,
we have done it. We got there. And they're like, well,
there's another venue down the road a little bit bigger. Well,
it's always your agent. Gap's another venue.
Well,
that's why someone who doesn't understand anxiety is never gonna understand how
a person like you with all that success could still get weirded out.
Do you know? I mean, that's, that's what makes it interesting. Like the,
the managing of the mind.
You know, I mean, uh, Dan and I are both pretty confident, but we're also at,
but we're not like, did you know, I think you're only as good as your last show,
really, you know, as good as your last record and you know,
you can't escape by and your. Yeah.
Uh, and we all knew bands growing up that kind of did right.
They had a couple of good albums and then things kind of went off the rails.
Dude. It's like,
my favorite band is like growing up with Divo cause they're from Akron.
And they were like this different kind of crazy band punk band.
Um, you know, and there is something special about Akron though. Yeah. There is.
Something special about Ohio.
But you watch, you watch a band like diva though. I was going to say,
get to get to LA and whatever happened there, the change that happened and,
um, is something, I mean, that's been something that Dan had been, I mean,
I think actively trying to avoid is that, that kind of thing,
you know? Um, but yeah, that's like, I go home to Akron. I fully get,
I fully accept and know that I'm going to get made fun of for certain things.
I'm not, I mean, I'm going to like a real individual,
get my thrown at me by my friends.
And they're going to make fun of me for whatever and
rightfully so. Um, but yeah, acronyms, I mean,
Ohio in the Midwest,
it's an inspiring place because it kind of is a vacuum and the people who are
operating there,
like 99% of them are operating this because they have no other choice that,
and they love doing what they're doing music wise.
So you go to New York for the first time and it's like, um,
you know, the smallest little band has a connection to the biggest producer.
And if I tell you here too, you know, I'm, that's why like,
it's like true people, like a little like a group,
anytime there's like four teenagers playing music together here, like ANR,
we're going to give you a big deal and get you on MTV. It never works out.
I mean,
that's like it think about the amount of bands that have come from Los Angeles.
How many great rock and roll bands have come from LA? I mean, seriously,
it's a massive city. It's the biggest county in the country.
The music industry is here and the take the last
20 years, great bands from Los Angeles. You wouldn't have a long list,
same with New York city. Um, you know,
if you go to the last 40 years, it's the list doesn't grow that much.
Do you think it's better? That's what I was saying.
Do you think it's better to be on the outside?
Do you think it's better to be in a city where you're in carnival?
Here's what I think is best.
I think if you can really integrate with the music industry
peripherally from the outside, it's always best. How so? What do you mean?
Like if you end up signing a major label, like, well, we almost signed up,
we got some offers early on to signed to major labels early on and we did not do
it mostly because like the co they kept, we kept being strung along.
Like the contract will be there in a week, a week would pass it.
Wouldn't show up two weeks pass. We call it. It'll be there next week. Finally,
we were like, this. We realized at the age of 22,
we realized if we signed the and they can't get a contract to us to even look at
in six weeks, if we make a record, there's, we're going to be so long janitor,
like we're never going to be able to do this. So we,
we took the gamble and we signed with the small Indian, just kept going,
you know? And when we finally went to a major,
it was on a subsidiary,
a major with really supportive president.
And we were kind of on the outside still,
even though we were inside run outside and we were able to do our thing,
we've never had an AR guy sit around and tell us to speed the song up or,
or whatever.
But the problem is if you get in without having some of those boxes ticked and
you get in and you sign a big lit big record, deal off the bat,
some dumb who has a communications degree from like Pepperdine
is going to be sitting down next to you. Like, I think the high hats too loud,
bro. I mean, K rock can't play that the drums are,
they just got to know he's talking about. And like, that's that right there.
When you get those notes coming from some dude,
that's your ANR guy that doesn't really notice. I mean,
there are good a and R guys,
but most of them are these types of dudes and they'll be like, yeah, man, like,
and it's, it's basically what they're doing right.
Then when they're telling they're getting in your head, be like,
you got to change the high hat on the mix. Man,
what they're saying is when this record fails and I can't deliver that,
any sort of fandom to you that I want to say that you turn the high hat down too
low, or I turn the high, he didn't turn it down low enough.
It was all cop outs everywhere. And the only way to get through that is to,
to we, we learn how to make records yourselves in a basement.
We had a tape machine,
a hundred dollar tape machine and radio shack microphones.
And we recorded our first record like that. We did our second record like that,
our third record, like that, our fourth record like that. And finally we,
we went into the studio danger mouse and we,
we knew how to run a mixing desk. You know what I mean?
We knew what we liked.
So if someone came in that wasn't danger mouse and was like this, or,
or one of the mixing engineers we've worked with, if,
if someone came in and said, the kick drum sounds like, we'd be like, off.
We know what a kick drum drum can sound like we've been doing this. Um,
and I think basically if you can spend the time,
get the time and get the that's why that's why, like back in the day, it's like,
you know, a record deal, a record, a band takes years to develop.
You know what I mean? It took us,
it took us eight years before we got us on the radio of actively making records
and touring. Um,
and a lot of this stuff set up with labels where they want like a hit on the
second record. You know,
my I'm married to a woman who sold millions and millions of albums and, um,
of songs that she wrote, you know? And when she turned in, uh,
an Americana record, like Warner brothers gave her such the run-around,
they shelved a record that costs 800 grand to make,
because they said there wasn't any hits on it.
That's that's no way to be an artist. Do you know what I mean? Yeah.
And so we've just always avoided that. So they shelled the record.
They just didn't even bother trying to release it to cut their losses. No, man.
And then they charged her for it. And then the dropper, I mean, that's, that's,
that's why, so they shelve it. They never release it. Yeah.
They've never released and they just drop her. Yeah, dude. That's how that,
that's how they do this though. The archives of these labels are filled up with.
That's been shelved really? Hell yeah, man. And I don't know the business. Well,
my, my, I, I learned all this stuff early on. Cause my uncle Ralph,
who Dan mentioned was signed to Warner brothers in the late seventies,
he made a record with his band called tin Huey.
It sold like 5,000 albums, you know, like failure. Um,
and then they gave him like 30 grand to off. Uh,
and they made some right. They made a record in between them and this shelter.
It happens all the time.
How many good records have they have shelved? What do they do with them?
Ultimately, like.
I think there's a lot of good records, but I also think,
I think there's a lot of records that started off really good.
And then some Pepperdine dudes like remix this, you need to remix it.
You need to do that into the, add this. You need to do this, do this.
Some dude just gassing. You know? It's like, it's not hard to just guess.
It's like, if I'm, if you're like looking at remodeling your kitchen, it's like,
and you're an idiot. You just put the stove here, up, put it over to the left,
actually redo the, you know what I mean?
But if you're really a producer musician that makes records and you turn it,
like you turn in a record,
it's so frustrated when you get someone that doesn't know what you're doing
coming back. Like maybe you should do this. I actually had that happen to me.
There's this band called the sheep dogs, this Canadian band. They actually, uh,
this record ended up going platinum in Canada and in the U S it never even got
pushed to radio. Not, not even one song, but um,
this guy, Chad Blake, who, Dan and I work with all the time,
who's mixed her last four records. He mixed this record.
This guy's like a genius in audio.
Wizard. Yeah, he's a wizard.
So he lives in Wales in a little house is his wife works with horses.
He's got a little side room, just tiny little room,
just like half the size of this. And he mixes huge.
Records. So he's,
he's a bad-ass and this whole records budget was like 60 grand,
including them living off of it and.
So I took the entire budget and let the fur,
and it was spent on a little cheap studio, um,
of some friends, a friend of mine, who's going to engineer it, them to live.
And the rest of it went to Chad to mix it. So I get the,
I get the mixes back and this NR guy is listening to the mixes.
And there's like, I think, uh,
I think that hi-hats too loud on the song. I'm not joking. And I'm,
I I'm on tour. Uh, how much were Dan? And I'm like,
I called danger message. What do I do? He's like, you know what to do.
I was like,
send him the same mix and label it mixed four and tell him it's been lowered
that's right. But then he was like, you also need to remember,
you are down. They will never service this song because that's the cop-out.
I was like. He said, just watch. And it is exactly what happened, Mike.
And I caught him like a year later and was like, dude, you're genius. He's like,
oh, well I've been through this. Yeah.
Because check it out. If you're an ANR guy, right.
You're getting like probably six figures.
You report to a senior HR who reports to a vice president who reports to the
president and that if you stick your neck out and you say,
I want to take a million dollars from the machine. And I want to, I want,
I bet bet at all, in this band, or even a quarter million dollars,
the odds of any band making it, like probably one in a hundred,
I'm gonna talk about even breaking even.
So if you only an idiot would ever really get behind a band that is
unproven. So you, your whole job is to deflect blame.
You know what I mean? So like, that's why, that's what the problem is. You know,
like if I was going to sign a band and someone offered me,
he said I had a million dollar budget to sign a new band.
Like I also wouldn't give them all the money.
Cause there was no way I'd make it back. You know what I mean? Yeah. Um,
but yeah, that's the music industry, dude is up. And then, you know,
you spend years and years and years. And if you're lucky,
like Dan and I looked out and then you look back and it's like,
I don't even know how, how it happened.
There's all these other factors that come into it, you know?
And you go try to help a band. One thing, something that worked for us,
we'd never worked for another band. So there's no, there's no formula to it.